RFC Proposal Path (#462)
pyrsia/pyrsia: docs/rfc/readme.md

# Pyrsia RFCs

Many changes, including bug fixes and documentation improvements can be implemented and reviewed via the
normal GitHub pull request workflow.

Some changes though are "substantial", and we ask that these be put through a bit of a design process and produce
a consensus among the Pyrsia community. See [when to follow this process](#when-you-need-to-follow-this-process) below.

#### Summary

The process can be broken down as follows:

1. [Reach out on community forms and open an issue](#before-creating-an-rfc)
2. [Follow the template and open a PR](#the-proposal-process)
3. [Attend our meeting and promote your proposal](#approach-the-community)

> 4. [Schedual a review meeting](#reviewing-a-proposal)

Reviewer: `Schedule`

Author: ```suggestion
4. [Schedule a review meeting](#reviewing-a-proposal)
```

Lastly, [Proposal resolution](#proposal-resolution) may take several different forms.

## Why are RFCs needed?

An RFCs is a design document providing information to the Pyrsia community. The RFC should provide a concise technical specification of
the feature and a rationale for the feature. Strong RFCs included detailed research on the idea and may be accompanied by a proof of concept

We intend RFCs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing major new features, for collecting community input on an issue, and for documenting
the design decisions that have gone into Pyrsia.

> The RFC author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

Reviewer: This is not how we would like to drive this forward. The RFC author should be encouraged to propose and once proposal is being discussed to facilitate the discussion. 

The team can figure out if it is actionable or not (with or without a proper consensus)

Author: ```suggestion
The RFC author is strongly encouraged to facilitate the discussion when the proposal is brought up at community events.
```

can make the process smoother.

Although there is no single way to prepare for submitting an RFC, it is generally a good idea to pursue feedback from other project developers beforehand,
to ascertain that the RFC may be desirable; having a consistent impact on the project requires concerted effort toward consensus-building.

The most common preparations for writing and submitting an RFC include talking the idea over on our official Slack channel, discussing the topic in a
GitHub issue.

As a rule of thumb, receiving encouraging feedback from long-standing project developers, and particularly members of the relevant sub-team is a good indication
that the RFC is worth pursuing.

## The Proposal Process

In short, to get a major feature added, one must first get the RFC merged into the RFC repository as a markdown file. At that point the RFC is "active" and may
be implemented.

- Fork this repository [pyrsia/pyrsia](https://github.com/pyrsia/pyrsia/fork)
- Copy `docs/rfc/0000-template.md` to `docs/rfc/0000-my-feature.md`
  - where 'my-feature' is the title in kebab case; don't assign a number yet.

> - Fill in the proposal. Put care into the details: **Proposals that do not present convincing motivation, demonstrate understanding of the impact of the design, or are disingenuous about the drawbacks or alternatives tend to be poorly-received**.

Reviewer: I agree that we should ask people to put in sincere effort.  But not everyone proposing will have deep understanding and having these constraints will be discouraging. I would rephrase as

`Please put in enough time and research in putting a proposal together and we strongly encourage getting some feedback from part of the team before making your proposal final.`

- Submit a pull request. As a pull request, the proposal will receive feedback from the larger community, and the author should be prepared to revise it in response.

### Approach the Community

Build consensus and integrate feedback. Proposals that have broad support are much more likely to make progress than those that don't receive any comments.

### Reviewing a Proposal

Periodically, the team will attempt to review the active proposals. We try to dicuss proposals at the bi-weekly team

> ["Architecture"](https://pyrsia.io/events/) meeting, we schedual additional meetings as need. Actions are recorded in the meeting minutes.

Reviewer: `schedule`

> Every accepted feature should have a core team champion, who will represent the feature and its progress.

Reviewer: Line 80 is not a required IMO.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Proposal resolution

Eventually, the team will decide whether the proposal is a candidate for adoption.

> 

Reviewer: ... and the decision will be recorded which will specify how the proposal becomes actionable.

We can remove lines 86/87/88

- A proposal can be modified based upon feedback from the team and community. Significant modifications may trigger a new final comment period.
- A proposal may be rejected by the team after public discussion has settled and comments have been made summarizing the rationale for rejection. A member of the team should then close the associated pull request.
- A proposal may be accepted. A team member will merge the proposal's associated pull request, at which point the proposal will become adopted.

## After acceptance

Once a proposal is accepted, then authors may implement it. This may mean submitting a pull request to the repository or putting some other process into place.
Acceptance however does not mean that resources are committed to the work; instead it means that the group is open to the change taking place.

Modifications to accepted proposals can be done in followup PRs.

## Implementing a proposal

The author of a proposal is not obligated to implement it. Of course, the proposal author (like any other community member) is welcome to post an implementation for review.

***

#### Inspirations

> This has been havily inspired by other community driven projects and their RFC process.

Reviewer: I would like to rephrase this as, 

`This has been derived from other community driven projects. But in the end the changes to this process can be proposed to the team and this process is open to being updated.`

Author: ```suggestion
This has been derived from other community driven projects. But in the end the changes to this process can be proposed to the team and this process is open to being updated.
```
